[Music]
if someone would have told us a long
time ago that humans could travel faster
than the speed of sound we'd not our
heads and disbelief and laugh I mean
think about it
breaking the sound barrier was as
mind-boggling as Superman's ability to
defy gravity but what if I told you that
a man achieved this impossible feat more
than seventy years ago so who is this
guy how did he manage to travel faster
than the speed of sound let's take a
short flight into the past and find out
future legend Charles Chuck Yeager was
born in 1923 it was a time when jazz was
flourishing and a decade of prosperity
was starting in America Chuck grew up in
a small town in West Virginia called
Hamlet and he was the second born son of
Susie and Albert Yeager he had a very
peaceful upbringing and he sure enjoyed
being active and curious when he wasn't
out playing in the woods he'd spend his
time next to his grandpa learning how to
fish and hunt chuck was also a good
student but school wasn't his cup of tea
he preferred to be outside but he
excelled in a few things that would
serve him well in his career he was good
at math physical activity and manual
dexterity
his dad owned a natural gas drilling
business in Hamlin there Chuck develop a
passion for generators pumps and
pressure regulators he wanted to learn
everything about them and he achieved it
during his teenage years he was able to
fix generators troubleshoot complicated
systems and even repair the pickup
trucks that his dad used in 1941 Chuck
graduated from school and in September
of that year he enrolled in the Army Air
Corps a choice that would change his
life forever
by July of 1942 he was picked to become
an Air Force pilot and his flight
training had begun his discipline stood
out and that gained him a lot of
recognition from his peers he had the
whole flying package and when his
training started he took off literally
and figuratively his eyesight was 2010
which was remarkable he was great with
coordination and he could carry out
almost any task without difficulty as if
that wasn't enough he was also able to
stay calm and focus on his work in
stressful situations which is a must for
pilots all of these positive trait
alongside his competitive nature and his
background in machinery attracted the
attention of his instructors in March of
1943 he finally got his wings to fly
away within a year he'd managed to fly
more than 270 hours around Europe there
his experience would prove invaluable
for his career in just a few years he
was able to travel faster than the speed
of sound and that wasn't an easy task
either but I'm getting ahead of myself
first let's take a deep dive into
physics and see what the sound barrier
is scientifically speaking the sound
barrier is a sudden rise in aerodynamic
force that happens when an aircraft
approaches the speed of sound ah what
well let me simplify it for you imagine
yourself sitting in your room watching
YouTube
I mean studying now the air all around
you is made up of molecules when you
move through the air all those molecules
rush to get out of your way now imagine
you're flying an aircraft at supersonic
speeds when those air molecules can't
get out of your way fast enough they
compress in front of your plane that
compressibility surrounds the problem of
breaking the sound barrier the
compressibility of molecules had been an
issue for physicists before airplanes
even existed
however the molecule compressibility was
always linked to the speed of sound and
that's what scientists were studying
they were looking at projectiles that
achieved surpassing the speed of sound
when physicists were able to capture
their first photo of when traveling at
supersonic speeds they were able to see
shockwaves both at the front and the
back of the projectile that was the
first time they could physically see the
compressibility of those molecules while
the world of aviation was taking off
engineers were trying to figure out a
way to build airplanes that could
approach the speed of sound without
breaking into pieces this happened
because the tips of the propeller blades
were traveling faster than the speed of
sound while the aircraft didn't when
those blades were moving at supersonic
speeds they were also meeting resistance
from the compressed air molecules so
engineers had to come up with something
that would allow aircraft to fly higher
and faster the problem got even more
noticeable when Jets entered the market
and replaced propeller planes in the
1940s they saw that as the Jets were
flying faster the air over the wings
reached supersonic speeds before the air
traveling below the wings that meant
that the shockwaves building up could
rip the plane into pieces now the speed
of sound is Mach 1 which is equivalent
to 761 miles per hour
but even at mach 0.8 613 miles per hour
the shockwaves that were building up
were still dangerous for the aircraft so
scientists manufacturers and engineers
alike put their thinking caps on and
started designing a new airplane that
could travel faster than the speed of
sound without falling apart and that was
when the x1 came to life and let me tell
you a lot of thought went into it it was
built in 1945 by Bell Aircraft and was
designed to use aerodynamics to help it
move through the air without any
disruptions while still pushing it
forward
scientists believe that since a
projectile can reach the sound barrier
designing something that replicated it
would be their best chance at success
the plane had short wings it was
equipped with a rocket engine and most
of its body was filled up with fuel that
was a surefire way to make it reach
supersonic speeds the x1 had only one
mission to break the sound barrier so it
had to retain all its fuel in order to
make the speed and travel faster than
sound it was designed to be launched
from below a b-29 bomber that big
airplane would be responsible for
carrying the x1 to the altitude it
needed but let's not get ahead of
ourselves in 1945 the x1 prototype
performed its first gliding trip without
using any power it didn't have an engine
so it was just release from the
mothership well attached to it by a
string but towards the end of 1946
another x1 was built this one had all
the right ingredients the rocket engine
and the fuel the only thing missing was
the right pilot the man for the job was
Chalmers Goodlett an excellent pilot who
worked for the Canadian Air Force and
performed many test flights of the x1
but just as they were about to seal the
deal on the sound barrier flight
Chalmers insisted on 150,000 bucks to
make the trip on top of that he also
asked to be paid every minute that the
aircraft spent traveling above Mach 0.85
of course the Bell Aircraft Corps
operation decline and Goodland lost his
chance to fly the x1 into history but
the company didn't lose hope since there
were eight more people lined up for the
job
among them was our buddy Chuck Yeager he
was the least experienced at the time
but his reputation preceded him his
knowledge and confidence on how to work
everything in the cockpit made him known
to everyone at the maroc Army Airfield
in the California desert which is today
known as Edwards Air Force Base and
chuck was given the chance to fly the x1
the day had finally come it was on
October 14 1947 right after 10:30 in the
morning
Yeager courageously boarded the aircraft
and the mothership took off at 20,000
feet the x1 was released from the b-29
just then Yeager pointed the aircraft's
nose downward and led all four barrels
of the rocket engine when he hit mach
0.8 he started to climb that's when he
shut down two of the rocket barrels to
see if the aircraft was still
accelerating above Mach 0.8 when he
reached 42,000 feet Chuck relit the two
rocket barrels that he had just shut
down and there it was the aircraft
continued accelerating and the Mach
meter was moving from zero point eight
to zero point nine to one point zero two
and finally reaching one point zero six
chuck had achieved the impossible he had
broken the sound barrier and traveled
faster than the speed of sound granted
he had his ups and downs during his
training he had a few near misses when
he was testing the aircraft but in the
end he succeeded in December of 1953
Yeager was piloting the x1 a which was
an aircraft designed to surpass the Mach
2 level in flight
he reached Mach two point four four
which is sixteen hundred fifty miles per
hour but then the unexpected happened
Jagr lost control of the plane Chuck
managed to regain control of the
aircraft at 29,000 feet in 2012 at 89
years old 65 years after breaking the
sound barrier Chuck Yeager did it again
he flew a McDonnell Douglas f-15 Eagle
and he hit 1.3 Mach like a true aviation
champion so would you like to experience
traveling faster than the speed of sound
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something from this video give
it a like and share it with a friend
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to munch on just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]